>> Marcy: Okay, so now it is time finally
we can move on to Intro to Accessibility
in JavaScript Applications.
it's what you've all
come here to learn about.
But we needed to focus on debugging first.
So that way when you're working
on things like focus management,
live region announcements,
semantic HTML, unobtrusive motion and
animation and progressive enhancement.
That you have the tools to test the things
that you're working on focus management.
This is a really big one,
because of the way that JavaScript
applications are rendered on the client.
So they're rendered with JavaScript
taking over the browser's history.
And we need to move the users focus
as part of the interactions through
the application.
So that they're alerted to content.
So that keyboard users are in
the right place in the application so
that they're not behind a modal window.
They're not stuck in some other part of
the web application that isn't active
anymore.
And we also need to announce,
by moving focus that will announce
things in a screen reader.
So it's kind of a two fold interaction.
We're getting keyboard
users into the right place.
We're also, by doing that often making
an announcement in a screen reader just by
sending focus there.
So yeah, it's a really big
topic in applications and
some of the building blocks of this
are using reachable and operable elements.
So making sure that you
can focus on things.
Like we saw that slack drop down menu,
it wasn't reachable, so
we couldn't even begin to
talk about focus management.
You should be able to use the tab
key to reach this elements.
So making them focusable by default.
Often when we're opening
this interactive layers,
a convention is to hit the escape key and
send you back where you came from.
So that's often the case with models
that you can go back to get out of,
if they're not forcing
you to make a decision.
We also commonly use the arrow keys for
things like tab switchers and menus.
Depending on how they're coded
having the arrow keys means that you
could have one focusable control and the
arrow keys will move you around instead
of having to hit tab a million times
to get through an interactive widget.
A big part of this as well
as visible focus styles.
And my own opinion of this
has evolved since I started.
I used to feel that sending
focus around dynamically,
that suppressing the visible
focus style was an important.
However, once I got into user testing
with people with disabilities and
I saw how a visible focus style can be
a game changer for using an interface.
I think it is a really important aspect
of when we're scripting focus around
like this.
And then lastly, we talked about CSS and
and hidden content, and
background layers is a big part of this.
So we want to make sure that if
we open a layer on the screen
that we're actually
disabling the background.
Because that is something I see a lot.
Especially with mobile dialogues and
I'll show you a little demo example
that we get stuck back there.
And if we aren't sending
focus in to the new content,
It can just be really hard for
a user to figure out what's going on.
>> Marcy: So the building block
that we're gonna start with,
with focus management is tabindex and
it gets used and abused.
So let's try and clear up some of
the confusion around tabindex.
It's an HTML attribute that
makes elements focusable or not.
If you use zero,
it will make it focusable in the order
in the DOM that it's included.
You can use tabindex of negative one
to remove something from the tab order.
If it's a button or a link or something
that's focused a little by default,
you can use tab index of negative
one to remove it from the tab order.
You can also put that
on something like a div
if you are gonna use JavaScript
to send focus to it.
It would allow that on it to catch the
focus and we'd see some examples of that.
And then tabindex you can also
put positive interger values.
And AXE the browser extension was
warning us, about a tab index of one,
I believe it was on the GitHub site.
And that's because when you
put things in an order,
then you have to manage the entire
page order and it's a huge pain.
So let's click on this Demo Div and
start playing with tabindex in here.
So this is just a div.
It's styled to look like a button.
I mean, probably I've seen that before.
So this div, I'm gonna go and
add an attribute in the dev tools.
So I can do tabindex of zero,
and hit Enter.
And now I can actually reach this element.
I can change it to negative one.
i can't reach it again.
It's sort of like the plane div.
But if I click on it,
it will allow me to focus it.
So it's got, let's see,
there's an outline.
A rapper element.
I'm gonna go back to this
element by clicking on it.
And my tabindex was removed.
That's what happened.
Tabindex negative one.
So now I am using a tool.
Tell you about a little later, so
we're not seeing the focus
outline when I click on it.
But my focus is there
because if I hit tab again
I'm in the next element in the tab order.
If I add tabindex of one, so taking it
out of the order it was naturally in.
It will now, I think it's actually
at the beginning of the page.
Yeah, so it's coming first.
So if you use any positive
tab index values,
they will come before everything
in the natural tab order.
Which if it's something in your footer,
you probably don't want to come first.
So it's good to know,
what the tab order of your page.
And I mention the Accessibility Insights
extension earlier,
that's the great tool
of the test tabindex.
So you can see the order as it goes along.
And if we have more time to debug we would
look at every single one of those tools,
but that's how you can debug tab order.
And another mention,
that screen readers you do not
have to make everything focusable.
Because you can already navigate
with it like by headings and
by different types of elements.
So this is for interactive controls.
So another layer to put on top
of this is that tabindex alone,
you would rarely use it by itself,
maybe the negative one part.
But if you're making something
interactive that's custom,
you have to do a little bit more work.
So I've added a role of button, and
an aria label attribute of close.
And so that would take this,
what's normally a div, and
add some accessibility information to it.
So a div has no semantics by default,
and it's not focusable by default.
But if I add,
lets go add some attributes here.
So role of button, and you can make
up roles they're standard set.
I've seen that happen before as well.
So go refer to the Aria specification and
know we're your options are.
So aria-label of close,
to give it some accessibility information.
And then if i go to the accessibility
inspector it has changed the role
of this div to a button and giving
it what's called an accessible name.
And so that's really important if you're
playing with creating custom elements.
You really want to make
sure you're going the full.
And I also need to mention that if you
can use a button element to start with,
start with that.
And I will show you why in the next slide